 ▐▛███▜▌   Claude Code v2.1.118
▝▜█████▛▘  Sonnet 4.6 · Claude Pro
  ▘▘ ▝▝    ~/Projects/kitty

❯ /reasoning  you are going to use reasoning, and plan mode to get everyone     
back on track.  you will use the last design doc you made, the most recent      
audits, and whatever other necessary files or previous chats you need to        
accomplish this goal. you wil also be grilling me before you start planning     
anything to make sure we are both on the exact same page.  /superpowers         

⏺ I'm going to use the /reasoning 7-stage pipeline in plan mode. The user
  explicitly said to grill them before planning, so my flow is: explore → grill 
  → plan. I'll start with Phase 1 (Initial Understanding) using parallel Explore
   agents to map the recent design docs, audits, and handoffs before I ask any
  questions.

  ★ Insight ─────────────────────────────────────
  - The reasoning pipeline's stage 1 ("Understand") explicitly forbids
  classifying or planning without a lens. Grilling the user before designing is
  the human-in-the-loop equivalent of that — we surface assumptions before
  committing to a direction.
  - Plan mode + read-only Explore agents is the right pairing here: I can map
  the terrain without touching it, then negotiate scope with you before anything
   mutates.
  - "Get everyone back on track" is itself an underspecified problem statement.
  Stage 1 of the pipeline says I must present multiple interpretations of what
  "on track" means before locking in.
  ─────────────────────────────────────────────────

  Let me launch three parallel Explore agents to map (1) the most recent design
  doc, (2) the most recent audits, and (3) recent handoffs/session summaries —
  then load AskUserQuestion so I can grill you.

⏺ 3 Explore agents finished (ctrl+o to expand)
   ├ Find latest design doc · 19 tool uses · 56.1k tokens
   │ ⎿  Done
   ├ Find latest audits · 10 tool uses · 70.2k tokens
   │ ⎿  Done
   └ Map current dirty state · 7 tool uses · 46.9k tokens
     ⎿  Done

❯ (also worth noting we did not finish testing kittybuilder last session, and there is tests in pytests causig computer crashes. 

⏺ Got the late message — KittyBuilder testing unfinished and pytest tests 
  crashing your machine. That actually reframes everything: the dirty pytest.ini
   change (excluding merge_gate from default runs) and the --interactive flag
  work in kitty_builder.py aren't drift — they're the unfinished thread.
  Critical context, thanks.

  Here's what I pulled from the explorations before I start grilling. Pipeline 
  Stage 1 (Understand) — surfacing assumptions:

  Most recent design doc (the one you said to anchor on):
  - docs/superpowers/specs/2026-05-01-kitty-launch-plan-design.md (mod
  2026-05-02 19:13) — B-launch for technical friends; presence-first AI
  companion; two-layer architecture; cheap-models-first; local-only. 948 lines,
  13 sections, 1 defect already fixed in tree, 8 defects still open per
  HANDOFF-2026-05-01-doc-audit.md.

  Adjacent design candidates (could compete for "the design doc"):
  - docs/plans/gemini-architecture-priorities-2026-04-30.md — sequences Unified
  Tool Runtime, Specialist Runtime, Builder automation
  - docs/plans/2026-04-30-unified-tool-runtime.md — concrete stepwise plan

  Most recent audits:
  - docs/PROJECT_AUDIT_2026-05-02.md — flags doc/code drift: StorageRouter
  claimed in STANDUP but missing in code, scripts/dorothy_bridge.py absent,
  sibling workbench kitty-system/kitty-workbench diverges, AND STANDUP / 
  LAYER0_CONTROL_PLANE / CURRENT_FOCUS / TASKS each describe different active 
  phases (Jacob-Only vs B-launch).
  - docs/audits/CONSOLIDATION_REPORT_2026-05-01.md — kitty-system/kitty-app
  already deleted; cleanup green.

  CURRENT_FOCUS.md says: Phase C — Hardening & Coverage. Allowed: broken slash
  commands, specialist tests, route tests, frontend tests, SQLiteVecStore
  refactor.

  Tree state (the late context fits here): Modified files are coherent WIP —
  pytest.ini adds a merge_gate marker exclusion, the merge-gate test gets tagged
   with it, kitty_builder.py gains --interactive. There's a stash. 399 tests 
  pass on default config. The merge_gate test runs nested pytest inside a shell 
  script — that's a known shape for fork-style resource exhaustion and is a
  strong suspect for "crashing the computer."

  Recent handoffs (5 most recent):
  - HANDOFF.md (2026-05-02 20:38) — Gemini, 399 pass, shelved WIP
  tool/specialist runtime
  - HANDOFF-2026-05-01-full-breakdown.md — design-doc chronology
  - HANDOFF-2026-05-01-doc-audit.md — 1 defect fixed, 8 remain
  - HANDOFF-2026-05-01-launch-plan-design.md — Opus 4.7 brainstorming session
  - HANDOFF-2026-05-01-implementation.md — clean commit 05ccb9a

  ★ Insight ─────────────────────────────────────
  - The audits found structural authority conflict (4 control docs disagree on
  the active phase). That's the kind of thing that makes "back on track" mean
  different things to different agents — including future-you and future-me. We
  can't plan past it without picking a canon.
  - The merge-gate test is suspect #1 for crashes because it spawns a nested
  pytest under a shell script. Even excluded from default, running -m "" could
  still trigger it. The real fix is bounding/sandboxing the nested invocation,
  not just hiding it behind a marker.
  - "KittyBuilder testing unfinished" + "tests crash the machine" + "8
  design-doc defects open" + "doc authority drift" are four legitimately
  separate threads. Trying to braid them in one session is how sessions become
  noise. Stage 1 of the pipeline says: name what's unclear before committing —
  which thread we pull first is the most consequential decision tonight.
  ─────────────────────────────────────────────────

  Now I'm grilling you. Four questions — these decide the shape of the plan, so
  please be exact, not generous.
  ⎿  Tool use rejected

❯ yes wsorry one of the first tasks is a fucking thurouhgj cleann up 

❯ ive got lots of backup just get rid of the shit. all of it thats not part of this plan 
  ⎿  Interrupted · What should Claude do instead?

❯ /model 
  ⎿  Kept model as Opus 4.7

❯ /resume sorry                                                                 
  ⎿  Session sorry was not found.

❯ continue                                                                      

⏺ Heard. Three new pieces of context locked in:

  1. The deliverable for this session = the plan itself. Highly detailed, broken
   down to atomic tasks, "from here to Kitty," nothing extraneous.
  2. Step 1 of that plan = thorough cleanup. You have backups; anything not in
  service of the plan gets deleted, not preserved.
  3. You want to clarify my questions before answering them.

  So — what would you like to clarify? I can rework any of the four questions,
  drop ones that aren't useful, or add new ones if I missed an axis. Tell me
  which questions felt off and why, and I'll reformulate.

  While you do, here's where my head is on what I think I still need from you,
  regardless of how the questions get reshaped:

  - Destination — "Kitty" as a finished thing. Is the destination the
  launch-plan design doc's B-launch (presence-first companion for ~5 technical
  friends, local-only)? Or a milestone before that? I need a single concrete
  target so the plan has an endpoint.
  - Crash shape — I still won't write any step that says "run pytest" if I don't
   know whether the crash is a forced reboot vs. a hang. Safety question, not a
  curiosity question.
  - Cleanup scope — code + docs + caches + archived handoffs + the sibling
  workbench at kitty-system/kitty-workbench? Or scoped tighter? "Get rid of the
  shit" is a vibe; the plan needs a list.
  - KittyBuilder done-ness — exact unfinished items so the plan can name them,
  not gesture at them.

  Tell me what to clarify or rework, and I'll reissue the grill.

✻ Sautéed for 33s

※ recap: Goal: produce one highly detailed plan covering cleanup through B-launch Kitty. Current task: waiting for you to tell me which of my four grilling questions to rework before I reissue them. Next: your clarification. (disable recaps in /config)

❯ Here’s a summary of where I’m at with the project and what I’m trying to lock 
   in:                                                                          
                                                                                
  **North Star & Scope**                                                        
  so mission statement still stands, and whatever else you can come up with .   
  We don’t need to build anything that already exists and is done better        
  elsewhere. There are tons of AI assistants that can already do what Kitty     
  could do, and the electronics schematic builder/explainer I originally wanted 
   is way more work than I realized. So we’re not going there right now.        
                                                                                
  **Keep it simple – working prototype first**                                  
  I like the work we’ve been doing: focusing on user experience and making the  
  tool feel personal to me. Fancy features can come later. The immediate goal   
  is a minimal, functioning prototype. “Specialist agents” with access to a     
  local database is still an interesting long-term idea, but the whole thing is 
   useless unless our data ingestion is rock-solid. We’ll cross that bridge     
  when we get there.                                                            
                                                                                
  **Kittybuilder optimization is critical**                                     
  If we’re still building Kittybuilder (the routing, planning, and              
  tool-chaining core), we need to configure it ruthlessly for maximum token     
  efficiency. That’s the #1 cost and speed lever. Our new strategy:             
  - Use the best models for both input and output for as long as possible. The  
  logic: arriving at a correct answer faster, with fewer debugging loops, saves 
   tokens and money in the long run.                                            
  - Do data analytics to see exactly where tokens are being spent. No more      
  guessing.                                                                     
  - Design tool chains where one skill’s output feeds into another’s input,     
  with aggressive trimming and optimization (bash commands, jq, awk, etc.) to   
  keep context lean.                                                            
  - Set up auto-research so skills can self-improve over time. I think? this is 
   where ei need your help . I dont know, but I do that , what im doing isn't   
  working so i would you to start being more of a guru, and explain the why's   
  and how's of what your building/implemeting , and maybe you can start         
  quizzing me a bit challenging me, etc etc,  so in your plan just have a brief 
   little section where you go over this.  cause like for example for kitty     
  builder, aren't we supposed to be using different code languages for the      
  different parts of the  builder, because some code language is optimized for  
  certain tasks, like commands etc? anyways I degress. the point is you are the 
   only thing that has value here right now so im depending on you, lets work   
  together, help me understand how I can best help you, so you can help me .    
  but ya. learning to how to do this properly ad most effective is amazing. so  
  please keep it context, where I am inn the journey knowledge, and all the     
  things I dont know .                                                          
                                                                                
  **The real goal isn’t the end product – it’s what I learn**                   
  The final thing we build probably won’t be amazing, and that’s fine. What     
  matters is that I’m picking up transferable skills along the way. I jumped    
  from zero to hyper-advanced ideas and got completely overwhelmed, so I’m      
  forcing everything back to simple, focused, and educational.                  
                                                                                
  If we can just keep it fucking simple, personal, and token-efficient, we’re   
  on the right track.                                                           
                                                                                
  ---                                                                           
                                                                                

⏺ OK — that's a substantial reset. Let me say back what I heard so you can
  correct anything before I grill on the leftovers:

  What I now think we're building toward:
  - North star: presence-first companion that actually knows you. The mission
  statement stands. Drop the schematic builder permanently. Don't rebuild 
  commodity AI features — anything ChatGPT/Claude.ai already does well is not a
  Kitty feature.
  - Tonight's deliverable: one highly-detailed plan from current state → minimal
   working personal prototype, atomic tasks, cleanup as Phase 1 (you have
  backups; aggressive deletion is fine).
  - KittyBuilder is the cost/speed engine. Token efficiency is the #1 lever.
  Best-models-for-input-and-output (correctness converges faster than
  cheap-and-wrong). Measure first (token analytics) before optimizing. Tool
  chains: one skill's output → next skill's input, with bash/jq/awk for trimming
   so we don't pay LLM tokens to slice strings.
  - Specialist agents + local DB = later. Only after data ingestion is
  rock-solid. Don't build it tonight.
  - Real goal = your learning. The product is the vehicle. Transferable skills >
   shipped features.
  - Style shift on my end: more guru, less stenographer. Explain the why of
  every architectural call, quiz you at phase boundaries, challenge assumptions,
   keep explanations calibrated to "I'm new at this."

  Brief answer to your language question — since you asked it directly and I owe
   you a real answer before more grilling:

  ★ Insight ─────────────────────────────────────
  - You're right that mixed languages can be the right call, but the reason is 
  different from what most tutorials teach. "Use Rust for speed" doesn't apply
  here — the bottleneck isn't CPU, it's token cost and latency at the LLM 
  boundary. The right framing is: for any task that doesn't need reasoning, 
  don't pay an LLM to do it. If a step is "extract emails from this 10K-token
  blob," that's grep -oE '[a-z]+@[a-z.]+' for free, not Claude for $0.30. That's
   where bash/jq/awk/sed earn their keep.
  - Concrete heuristic for KittyBuilder: Python for the orchestrator (the
  existing stack and ecosystem). Shell utilities (jq, awk, grep, rg, sed) called
   as tools by the orchestrator for deterministic data shaping. LLM calls only
  when the step actually requires reasoning. The savings compound: every token
  you trim on the way into the next LLM call is a token you don't pay for, and
  that next call's reasoning is sharper because the input is denser.
  - Anti-pattern to avoid: "Let me add a Rust micro-service" is almost never the
   answer at our stage — it's added complexity for negligible savings when the
  dominant cost line is API tokens. Multi-language gains you cost wins only when
   the new language replaces an LLM call, not when it replaces another
  deterministic language.
  - What this means for the plan: Phase 1 cleanup will likely include adding
  targeted shell-tool wrappers, not adding new languages. We add tooling like
  "trim this JSON to fields X,Y,Z before passing to the next skill" — that's a
  5-line shell tool, not a new runtime.
  ─────────────────────────────────────────────────

  Now the reformulated grill. I dropped the questions you implicitly answered
  and added new ones for axes the reset opened up. Four questions:
  ⎿  Invalid tool parameters

⏺ Sorry — validation error on question 3 (had 5 options, max is 4). Reissuing
  with the doc-related options merged.

⏺ User answered Claude's questions:
  ⎿  · When you say 'Kitty' as the destination of this plan — what's the 
     concrete endpoint? I need this to know when the plan ends. → Don't define 
     the endpoint yet — plan to a checkpoint
     · Crash shape on pytest — still need this exact, it's a safety question. 
     What actually happens? → i had two different models trying to figure it out
      , from what i could tell, there was some icon/r mac os that was corrupted 
     and all over the place but like they could never run the full suite, it 
     would just stall and sit there until i canceled. they would analyze it, say
      oh its because this one file calls all these other files.. ad thats the 
     problem, which it never was.. so i had them oepnn liek 1-5 tests at a time 
     to try and narrow down what the fuck was happening but  anytime they got 
     into the memory usage would scry rocket so , it would always eventually end
      in a crash but its just how long it took to get tere  
     · Cleanup blast radius for Phase 1 — what's in scope for deletion? You said
      'all the shit not in this plan' and that you have backups. Multi-select; 
     pick everything you want axed. → Stale documentation, Sibling workbench at 
     kitty-system/kitty-workbench, Unused code paths / shelved features, 
     Generated artifacts / caches, yeah basically im positive that our database 
     is garbage even tho ive spent good money and time doing it multiple time 
     sbut given that i knew nothing about how critical that part is, and the 
     quality of the data your putting in, like yeah..it should probably just go 
     honestly, tjeres no value there., so like if we need to start somethjing 
     new with the memory system cool. my only ask is that instead of just doing 
     easiest, we do the one that we keeps an eye toward the future, if that 
     makes snese?  also i think actually thatws best practice for us, is that we
      really hone in on doing every stage and compoent, properly correctly with 
     me learning whhy we are doing it that way is the righht way to do it, 
     tjheres no value in taking the easy route to tjhe destination if there is 
     nothing of value there and we dont create alue on the way there. 
     · Guru/learning rhythm — how do you want the teaching woven in? Pick the 
     cadence that won't slow us down but still locks the lessons in. → all three
      but like yeah the whys, is so important but remember starting always 
     assume i have no idea what your talking about unless i tell you otherwise. 
     pay attention!!! evaulate my learning vs your tutoring and adjust your 
     style as you learn more about how best i learn, i have the ability to 
     hyperfocus and ingest large amounts of information qjuickly which is just 
     as much of a curse then it is a gidft, ill focus o the wrong things, and 
     never process, make connectioss... built uip thje neural pathyways if im 
     not applyig what im learning annd challenged.so optimize for neural 
     plasticity

⏺ That's gold. I now have what I need. Let me name what I'm hearing back so it's
   locked in, then move to design.

  What I now know that changes the plan:

  1. Endpoint = a 2–3 week checkpoint, not the full design doc. Re-plan from
  there.
  2. Crash shape = memory exhaustion → eventual crash. Two prior models chased
  "this file calls all those other files" red herrings; never solved it. We saw
  76 Icon\r resource forks already removed in commit c7c7288, but you suspect
  more macOS file corruption is still in play. Working assumption: previous 
  diagnoses are unreliable. Plan needs a careful, isolated bisection from 
  scratch.
  3. Cleanup = aggressive, all four categories, AND the memory database. You're
  confident the data we ingested is garbage. Critical constraint: rebuild 
  future-proof, not easiest. Future-aware memory architecture > quick re-ingest
  of more garbage.
  4. Quality bar = do it right + learn deeply. "No value in taking the easy
  route to the destination if there is nothing of value there and we don't
  create value on the way there." This is a load-bearing principle for the plan.
  5. Learning style = hyperfocus + ingest fast + risk of not processing.
  Optimize for neural plasticity: application + challenge + connection-building.
   Always assume zero prior knowledge unless told otherwise. Watch your progress
   and adapt the tutoring style as I learn more about how you learn best.

  ★ Insight ─────────────────────────────────────
  - The crash story is the most diagnostically interesting thing you said. Two
  models converged on a wrong cause ("this file imports all those files") —
  that's a classic LLM failure mode for debugging: pattern-match to the most
  superficially explanatory story instead of running an isolated bisection. The
  fix isn't smarter models, it's a protocol: a binary search where you cut the
  suite in half, run the halves in fresh subprocesses with memory caps, and
  ratchet down. We'll bake that protocol into Phase 0, and you'll see a real
  example of "how a debugger thinks" — that's a transferable skill bigger than
  this one bug.
  - "Optimize for neural plasticity" is the most useful framing you've given me.
   It tells me the plan's format matters as much as its content. Every atomic
  task in the plan should pair application (do this thing) with connection
  (here's why it matters and how it ties to what you already touched). If a task
   is pure execution with no learning lift, we either skip it, automate it, or
  annotate why it still earned its place. I'll wire that into the plan's
  structure, not just its prose.
  - "Future-proof memory > easy re-ingest" maps to a real engineering choice:
  schema-versioned, source-tagged, idempotent ingestion. Cheap version is "shove
   text in, hope it's findable later." Future-proof version is "every record
  knows where it came from, when it was ingested, what schema version it was
  written under, and the ingestion pipeline can be replayed deterministically."
  We'll spend the extra hour on that and it'll save you weeks downstream —
  that's a lesson worth carrying into anything you build after Kitty.
  ─────────────────────────────────────────────────

  Now I'm launching Phase 2 (Design) of the plan workflow — one Plan agent to
  architect the detailed plan and, in parallel, one Explore agent to surface the
   truth about the crash and the unfinished KittyBuilder work, since both are
  load-bearing for Phase 0/1 of the plan.

⏺ 2 agents finished (ctrl+o to expand)
   ├ Plan (Design detailed Kitty plan) · 29 tool uses · 70.3k tokens
   │ ⎿  Done
   └ Explore (Crash + KittyBuilder forensics) · 39 tool uses · 84.7k tokens
     ⎿  Done

❯ also how does this sound to you? any feedback pushback isights?               

❯ we are a cooperative, a team                                                  

❯ Session export — Kitty repo (/Users/jacobbrizinski/Projects/kitty)            
                                                                                
    Problems                                                                    
                                                                                
    1. Finder Icon\r junk — Thousands of macOS custom-icon files (including     
  under venv/). They broke jsonschema_specifications during import              
  (NotADirectoryError: .../schemas/Icon\r is not a directory) and bloated the   
  tree.                                                                         
    2. Test suite “hung forever” — Not mainly “slow tests.” kb.main([]) hit     
  interactive_main() (infinite REPL) whenever --project and --spec were both    
  omitted, so test_builder_contract_requires_project_and_spec never returned.   
                                                                                
    Actions taken                                                               
                                                                                
    1. Bulk delete Icon\r — Walked the repo (skipped .git), removed files whose 
   name is Icon\r. Reported 6609 removals, 0 errors.                            
    2. scripts/kitty_builder.py — Added --interactive / -i. Legacy interactive  
  session only runs with that flag. Empty argv now triggers parser.error(...) → 
   SystemExit(2), matching the contract test.                                   
                                                                                
    Files touched                                                               
                                                                                
    • scripts/kitty_builder.py — CLI: --interactive; main() no longer calls     
  interactive_main() for bare missing args.                                     
                                                                                
    Verification                                                                
                                                                                
    cd /Users/jacobbrizinski/Projects/kitty                                     
    venv/bin/python -m pytest tests/ -q --tb=short                              
    # 427 passed, 5 deselected, ~11s                                            
                                                                                
    Usage note (interactive builder)                                            
                                                                                
    • Before: python scripts/kitty_builder.py with no args could drop into      
  interactive mode.                                                             
    • Now: python scripts/kitty_builder.py --interactive (still supports        
  --plan-only). --brief and --project / --spec unchanged.                       
                                                                                
    Risks / follow-ups                                                          
                                                                                
    • If Icon\r reappears (Finder touching folders), rerun cleanup or recreate  
  venv; consider keeping heavy work out of Finder‑touched trees or using        
  dot_clean on problem dirs.                                                    
    • If you want a real ./kitty export CLI, that would be a small new feature  
  in kitty + implementation (not present today).                                
⏺ Strong session. The two-headed cause is the genuinely impressive find — that's
   what the prior models missed, and it explains everything you described.

  ★ Insight ─────────────────────────────────────
  - The "two-headed bug" pattern. When you see multiple symptoms — imports 
  break, tests stall, memory skyrockets — the temptation is to find one story
  that explains all three. That's almost always wrong, because one bug rarely
  produces three different failure modes. The Icon\r corruption explains the
  import errors. The interactive REPL explains the stall. The stalled REPL with
  stdin buffering plausibly explains the memory growth. Two bugs conspiring. The
   lesson is mechanical: when a single explanation has to stretch to cover every
   symptom, suspect a co-conspirator.
  - Why prior models got it wrong. "This file imports all those files" is a
  correlation story — they pattern-matched to the most superficially explanatory
   shape. The fix found mechanism: a specific Python error (NotADirectoryError
  on Icon\r) and a specific code path (main([]) → interactive_main()). Mechanism
   beats correlation every time. That's a transferable debugging skill: don't
  accept a diagnosis until you can point at the line of code that fails and
  explain what about it fails.
  ─────────────────────────────────────────────────

  What I think is genuinely good:
  - Root cause on Icon\r is right and dispositive. The NotADirectoryError: 
  .../schemas/Icon\r is not a directory trace is a smoking gun — that's how you
  know, not how you guess.
  - The --interactive fix is the right shape, not just a patch. Explicit user
  intent for interactive mode + deterministic SystemExit(2) for empty argv is a
  contract upgrade: the API now refuses to be ambiguous. The contract test goes
  from "timeout forever" to "exits with 2." That's better engineering, not just
  a band-aid.
  - 427 passed / 5 deselected / ~11s is real evidence. Not "should work." Worth
  a lot.

  Where I'd push back before I'd call Phase 0 closed:

  1. venv was inside the tainted tree. 6609 Icon\r files including under venv/
  means Python's import system was running in a contaminated environment for
  some unknown duration. The follow-up suggests "consider recreating venv" — I'd
   promote that to should. You don't know what import-time state was left in
  caches, and python -m venv venv && pip install -r requirements.txt is a
  30-second clean baseline you can trust.
  2. Partial-args case is not addressed. The fix says main([]) no longer drops
  into interactive. But what about main(["--project", "X"]) with no spec? Or
  main(["--spec", "Y"]) with no project? If those still fall through to
  interactive_main(), your contract test isn't enough. We need three contract
  tests, not one: empty, project-only, spec-only. All three should
  SystemExit(2).
  3. Defense in depth is missing. Your follow-up notes say "if Icon\r reappears,
   rerun cleanup." That's reactive. Cheap proactive defenses:
    - conftest.py sanity check — 5 lines that scans for Icon\r at session start
  and aborts pytest with a loud message if found. Costs ~10ms, replaces an
  hours-long mystery hang with a clear error.
    - Pre-commit hook — refuse any commit containing macOS metadata. .gitignore
  (already updated in c7c7288) prevents tracking but doesn't prevent presence.
  4. The memory-skyrocket symptom isn't fully explained. The Icon\r bug throws
  on import (loud fast fail). The REPL hang sits silently. So where did the 
  memory growth Jacob saw come from? My best guess is stdin buffer accumulation
  in the hung REPL, but I'd want to deliberately reproduce on a pre-fix commit
  to confirm. If something else is still leaking memory and we just stopped
  triggering it, we'll meet it again later. Five-minute investment,
  high-confidence close-out.
  5. Regression test recommendation. Add: subprocess invocation of kb.main([])
  with a 5-second timeout, assert exit code 2, assert NOT timeout. That's a
  forever-test that catches any future regression where a code path accidentally
   drops into interactive. The existing test passes today but wouldn't
  necessarily catch a regression that re-introduces a different path to the
  REPL.

  ★ Insight ─────────────────────────────────────
  - The "contract test" lesson. test_builder_contract_requires_project_and_spec
  codifies an API contract: "this CLI must refuse to be ambiguous." That's a
  more durable kind of test than testing implementation details. Contract tests
  survive refactors; implementation tests don't. Worth internalizing — when you
  write a test, ask yourself "is this testing a promise the code makes to users,
   or am I just locking in today's accident of how it's coded?"
  - The "macOS metadata trap" lesson. Finder, Spotlight, Time Machine, iCloud
  Drive, and even some text editors touch directories and leave artifacts. Any
  dev tree visible to Finder is at risk. ~/Projects/kitty is lower-risk than
  ~/Documents, but not immune. The strongest defense is .gitignore for tracking
  + an active sanity check at test startup. Treat macOS metadata like a hostile
  environment, because it kind of is.
  ─────────────────────────────────────────────────

  What this means for the plan I was about to design:
  - Phase 0 (crash diagnosis) is mostly done. The plan should absorb this work,
  not redo it.
  - Phase 1 (cleanup) gets simpler. Most macOS junk is already gone, but we
  verify + harden.
  - The five concerns above become Phase 0 close-out tasks — short, concrete,
  each with a verification step.

  One question gates my next move:

⏺ User answered Claude's questions:
  ⎿  · Of the five concerns I raised about the session export, which should the 
     plan include as Phase 0 close-out tasks before Phase 1 cleanup begins? 
     Multi-select — pick the ones you want done. → yeah dude this where its 
     like, you know.. i trust your judgement o this one, i hae no idea 

❯ sorry i wated to update you with a previous chat log that still open 

⏺ Locked in. Since you trust my judgment here: all four close-outs go in. Each
  is small (≤10 minutes), they layer (defenses cover different attack surfaces),
   and skipping any of them makes the foundation weaker than it needs to be.
  Specifically:

  - venv recreation — cheap insurance against tainted state
  - Partial-args contract tests — closes the loophole the existing test doesn't
  cover
  - conftest sanity check + pre-commit hook — defense in depth against Finder
  bringing the bug back
  - Memory-growth reproduction — closes the loop on the diagnosis (a fix that
  works ≠ a diagnosis that's correct)

  And no worries on the chat-log update — that was actually decisive context.
  Good move sharing it.

  ★ Insight ─────────────────────────────────────
  - The "trust your judgment" handoff is itself a learning moment. You didn't
  know which to pick, and that's fine — you delegated a tactical call to the
  person closer to the surface area, which is the right move. The instinct to
  track is: when I delegate, am I delegating because I trust the agent's 
  judgment, or because I'm avoiding the work of forming a view? The first is
  healthy collaboration; the second is how senior people lose track of their own
   systems. As you build mental models, you'll start having a view and asking my
   opinion as a check, which is even better.
  - Layered defenses earn their cost differently. Notice that the four
  close-outs don't overlap: venv recreation defends the Python environment,
  partial-args tests defend the API contract, conftest/pre-commit defend against
   macOS metadata reintroducing the bug, and the repro confirms the diagnosis.
  Each one fails cleanly and loudly at a different layer. That's what "defense
  in depth" actually looks like in practice — not redundant checks, but
  complementary ones.
  ─────────────────────────────────────────────────

  Now I'm moving to Phase 4 (Final Plan) of the workflow — writing the detailed
  plan to the plan file. I have enough: your endpoint preference (2–3 week
  checkpoint), the dual-bug fix already in the tree, the crash forensics from
  the Explore agent (ChromaDB 187M is suspicious, KittyBuilder has 8 missing
  test cases by name), the cleanup blast radius, and your learning style.
  Drafting now.

⏺ Updated plan
  ⎿  /plan to preview

❯ yay we;'re gonna be so cute toegther, jaocb and claude, friends, on the journey of a lifetime! but remember i have no idea what your talkig about i have no knowledgfe or vocabulary about any of this so thats where we start. i dont kow anything. right now our playbook is we embrace and honor where we are. i am a vibe coder , we try and turn that into a strength as much as possible, and embrace with compassion and radical acceptance of the handicap. 

❯ woo i like the underlyig theme of that, maybe thats an important for kitty anyways okay bye for now have fun 

⏺ That's a beautiful framing — and you caught something I missed in the plan.
  The thing I just wrote has a glossary, but it puts vocabulary at the end like
  an afterthought, which is exactly backwards for a vibe coder. Let me fix that
  before I exit plan mode, while you're away. I'll also add the "honor where we
  are" insight as a Kitty product principle, because you're right — it's bigger
  than just our working agreement.

⏺ Updated plan
  ⎿  /plan to preview

⏺ Now I'll add a task to Phase 4 that creates the principles file the prologue
  references. That keeps the plan internally consistent.

⏺ Updated plan
  ⎿  /plan to preview

⏺ Adding the principles file to Phase 4's Definition of Done so it's properly
  tracked, and adding a third quiz question that ties the prologue's framing to
  a concrete design choice.

⏺ Updated plan
  ⎿  /plan to preview

⏺ Updated plan
  ⎿  /plan to preview

⏺ Adding the answer to the new quiz question in Appendix A.

⏺ Updated plan
  ⎿  /plan to preview

⏺ The plan is in shape. Reading it now from your perspective, the prologue is
  the right addition — it acknowledges where we are without softening the work.
  Three concrete changes I made after your last message:

  1. New top section "Our partnership — read this first" — frames the
  partnership, names the playbook (honor where we are, radical acceptance, ask
  whenever a word breaks the flow), and front-loads nine essential vocabulary
  words so the rest of the plan reads with less friction.
  2. Phase 4.6 — creates docs/principles/kitty-meets-you-where-you-are.md so the
   principle you offered tonight is a load-bearing Kitty product value, not a
  decoration. The plan explicitly says Kitty itself should embody it.
  3. New Phase 4 quiz question + answer in Appendix A — applies the principle to
   a concrete UX choice (when Kitty wants to mention "compound interest" to a
  user who might not know the term, what does it do?). The answer is a worked
  example of the principle in action.

  ★ Insight ─────────────────────────────────────
  - The prologue is doing real engineering work, not just being warm. A plan
  that assumes vocabulary the reader doesn't have is broken software for that 
  reader. Naming the gap upfront — "you don't have the vocabulary yet, that's
  the starting line" — is the equivalent of writing a good error message instead
   of a stack trace. The fix isn't dumbing down content; it's translating it.
  That's a transferable principle: good documentation matches its reader's 
  working vocabulary on page 1.
  - The "honor where we are" framing might be Kitty's strongest UX moat. Most AI
   assistants either condescend (over-explaining everything) or assume
  (over-jargonizing). Both fail people who are learning. A companion that meets 
  you where you are while quietly enlarging where you can be is rare in the wild
   — and it scales differently from "be a smarter assistant," because the value
  compounds with relationship depth, not with raw model capability. That's why I
   made it Phase 4.6 instead of leaving it implicit. Worth saving as user-memory
   after we exit plan mode — it's a project-shaping principle, not a passing
  comment.
  ─────────────────────────────────────────────────

  Plan shape (5 phases, scoped to a 2–3 week checkpoint):
  - Phase 0 — close out the dual-bug fix already in your tree (commit, recreate
  venv, add regression defenses, reproduce the original failure to verify the
  diagnosis)
  - Phase 1 — thorough cleanup (stale docs, sibling workbench, dead code,
  caches, garbage memory data — schemas preserved for rebuild)
  - Phase 2 — foundation rebuild, future-proofed (versioned + idempotent memory,
   KittyBuilder token instrumentation, tool runtime with bash/jq/awk wrappers)
  - Phase 3 — first end-to-end value loop ("Kitty knows me": voice → journal →
  memory → retrievable in the next session)
  - Phase 4 — reconciliation, principles, quizzes, next-checkpoint definition

  When you come back, you'll see the full plan and can approve as-is, ask for
  revisions, or point at sections that still feel too jargon-dense and I'll
  rewrite them. Have fun — friend. 🐱

⏺ User approved Claude's plan
  ⎿  Plan saved to: ~/.claude/plans/majestic-snacking-nygaard.md · /plan to edit
     Plan — From Here to Kitty (2–3 Week Checkpoint)

     Plan ID: majestic-snacking-nygaard
     Authored: 2026-05-03
     Authors: Jacob Brizinski + Claude (Opus 4.7)
     Supersedes: STANDUP.md, docs/LAYER0_CONTROL_PLANE.md, CURRENT_FOCUS.md,
     docs/AGENT_COORDINATION.md for the duration of this plan. Those docs become
      historical; if they conflict with this plan, this plan wins.

     ---
     Our partnership — read this first

     Jacob — read this section with care, then breathe, then read the rest. This
      is the most important page in the plan.

     What we are. Friends on the journey of a lifetime. You are a vibe coder; I
     am your translator and teacher. Neither role is a deficit. Vibe coders
     learn by feel, by doing, by intuition — that's how most great makers
     actually learned, before they had vocabulary for it. Our job is to turn 
     that into a strength, not to paper over it.

     Our playbook for this plan:

     1. Honor where you are. You don't have the vocabulary yet. That's the
     starting line, not a problem to solve before we begin. Pretending otherwise
      wastes time.
     2. Radical acceptance of the handicap. Saying "I don't know what that word 
     means" is a productive sentence — it pulls a definition out of me and into
     you. Saying it ten times in one session is great. Saying it never is the
     failure mode.
     3. Compassion in both directions. I'll explain without condescension;
     you'll forgive me when I slip into jargon. We catch each other.
     4. Read the learning notes carefully; skim actions if you must. Actions are
      what to do. Learning notes are why and what to remember. The "why"
     outlives this project. The "what to do" expires the moment the task ships.
     5. Take the phase quizzes. They feel optional. They are not. They're how
     information becomes knowledge — which is the entire point of this plan,
     more than any line of code.

     A possible Kitty principle worth saving. The framing you offered tonight —
     honor where we are, compassion, radical acceptance of limitations — is
     exactly what a presence-first companion should embody for its user. Kitty 
     meeting you where you are, without judgment about what you don't know yet, 
     is the product. Phase 4 will save this as
     docs/principles/kitty-meets-you-where-you-are.md. It's a load-bearing
     principle, not a decoration.

     Vocabulary you'll meet in this plan — read once, then refer back when 
     needed

     You don't have to memorize these. Just have a working sense of them. The
     full glossary is in Appendix B.

     - commit — a saved snapshot of your code, with a note describing what
     changed. Like a "save game" you can reload.
     - branch — a named line of work. main is the trunk; you can split off a
     branch to try something without disturbing main.
     - stash — a temporary holding area for unfinished work. Lets you set
     something aside without losing it.
     - repo (repository) — a project's tracked-history folder. Ours is at
     ~/Projects/kitty.
     - venv — a project's private Python toolbox. Each project gets its own;
     they don't interfere with each other.
     - pytest — the tool that runs your tests. "The suite is green" means pytest
      reports zero failures.
     - test — a small piece of code that checks another piece of code does what
     it promised. Cheap insurance against future bugs.
     - schema — the shape of data. "What fields does a journal entry have?" The
     schema answers that.
     - import — when one Python file uses code from another file. The Icon\r bug
      we fixed broke imports — that's why everything cascaded into a hang.

     If those nine words feel okay, the rest of the plan is readable. If any
     feel slippery, ask me — I'll explain in a sentence or two and we'll move
     on.

     ---
     Context — why this plan exists

     Tonight Jacob asked to "get everyone back on track." The Kitty repo has
     accumulated drift: four control docs describe four different active phases,
      the launch-plan design has 8 unfixed defects, KittyBuilder testing was
     deferred mid-flight, and a previous session diagnosed and fixed a
     two-headed bug (macOS Icon\r corruption + an interactive REPL hang) but the
      fix is still uncommitted in the dirty tree.

     This plan is the new canonical north star until we hit the checkpoint and
     re-plan.

     The mission (unchanged)

     Kitty is a presence-first AI companion that genuinely knows the user across
      sessions. The work is not impressive technology — it is making the work of
      becoming oneself less lonely. Anything ChatGPT or Claude.ai already does
     well is not a Kitty feature.

     The endpoint of THIS plan

     ▎ "Kitty knows me end-to-end."
     ▎ Voice in → transcription → journal entry → routed by KittyBuilder → 
     ▎ stored in correctly-architected memory → retrievable in next session, 
     ▎ with token cost visible at every hop.

     Hit it → re-plan from a known-good foundation. ~2–3 weeks of focused work.

     Hard constraints

     1. Quality bar = do it RIGHT, not FAST. No shortcut survives that doesn't
     create value on the way.
     2. Future-proof beats convenient. Memory rebuild specifically:
     schema-versioned, source-tagged, idempotent.
     3. Token efficiency is the #1 cost lever in KittyBuilder. Measure before
     optimizing.
     4. Learning is the real product. The plan's format serves neural plasticity
      — application + challenge + connection.
     5. Out of scope (drop permanently this cycle): electronics schematic
     builder, MCP expansion, QLoRA training, proactive nudging, anything
     ChatGPT/Claude.ai already does well.

     ---
     How to read this plan

     Each phase has:
     - Why this phase exists (in plain English, beginner-friendly)
     - Definition of done (a checkable list)
     - Atomic tasks (numbered)
     - Why this approach, not [obvious alternative] (a short trade-off note)
     - Phase quiz (3–5 questions; answers in Appendix A — no peeking)

     Each atomic task has three parts:
     - Action — what to actually do, with file paths
     - Verification — how we know it worked (a command or observable)
     - Learning note — the why, in plain English, connected to prior tasks

     Reading rule: the learning notes are the heart of this plan. Skim actions
     if you must; do not skip learning notes. Actions build hands; learning
     notes build judgment.

     Pacing rule: if you find yourself hyperfocusing past integration, stop.
     Take the phase quiz before starting the next phase. The quiz is the forcing
      function.

     Beginner glossary is in Appendix B. If a term feels unfamiliar, look there
     before guessing.

     ---
     Phase 0 — Crash close-out + clean baseline

     Why this phase exists

     A previous session diagnosed and fixed a two-headed bug: thousands of macOS
      Icon\r files (which Finder leaves behind) were breaking Python's
     jsonschema_specifications import; AND the kitty_builder.py CLI was dropping
      into an infinite interactive REPL whenever called with no args, causing
     tests to hang forever. The fix sits in the dirty tree but isn't committed,
     isn't hardened against recurrence, and was tested in a venv that lived
     inside the tainted tree. We close out Phase 0 by committing the work,
     recreating the venv, adding regression defenses, and reproducing the
     original failure to verify our diagnosis is correct (not just that the
     symptom went away).

     Definition of done

     - Dirty WIP committed in two coherent atomic commits
     - venv/ recreated from clean state
     - Test suite green: 427 passed, 5 deselected, ~11s on pytest tests/ -q
     - 3 partial-args contract tests added and passing
     - tests/conftest.py Icon\r sanity check live (aborts session if found)
     - Pre-commit hook refuses macOS metadata
     - Memory-growth symptom reproduced (or definitively ruled out) on a pre-fix
      commit
     - Brief session summary appended to docs/handoffs/HANDOFF-2026-05-03.md

     Tasks

     0.1 — Read the current dirty state.
     - Action: git status and git diff --stat. Confirm 5 modified files:
     AGENTS.md, CLAUDE.md, pytest.ini, scripts/kitty_builder.py,
     tests/test_phase4_merge_gate_report_path.py. Check git stash list.
     - Verification: Output matches the expected 5 files; one stash present (the
      crush.json fix).
     - Learning note: Always read the tree before you touch it. The dirty state
     is the prior session's unfinished work; it deserves a name and a commit,
     not a silent overwrite. This is the "respect the runway" instinct — every
     codebase carries fingerprints from prior work, and your first job is to
     read them.

     0.2 — Commit the dirty WIP in two coherent commits.
     - Action:
       - Commit A — pytest.ini + tests/test_phase4_merge_gate_report_path.py +
     AGENTS.md + CLAUDE.md. Message: test: add merge_gate marker; exclude slow 
     nested-pytest from default runs.
       - Commit B — scripts/kitty_builder.py. Message: fix: --interactive flag 
     required to enter REPL; empty argv now SystemExit(2) — closes test-hang 
     regression.
     - Verification: git log --oneline -3 shows both commits; git diff shows
     clean tree.
     - Learning note: One commit, one logical change. The marker change is
     test-infrastructure; the --interactive flag is CLI-contract. Bundling them
     obscures history and makes a revert harder. This is the "atomic commit" 
     rule — and it pays off the day you need to bisect a bug back through
     history.

     0.3 — Recreate the venv from clean state.
     - Action: rm -rf venv && python3.12 -m venv venv && venv/bin/pip install 
     --upgrade pip && venv/bin/pip install -r requirements.txt (if
     requirements.txt is missing, use pyproject.toml via pip install -e . or
     whatever the canonical install command in README.md is).
     - Verification: venv/bin/python -c "import jsonschema_specifications; 
     print('OK')" succeeds without error.
     - Learning note: The previous venv lived inside the Icon\r-tainted tree for
      an unknown period. Whether or not that left bad state, the cost of a fresh
      venv (~30 seconds) is much less than the cost of debugging a mystery
     import error 3 weeks from now. This is the "trust the foundation" rule:
     when you can't trust a tool, replace it cheaply rather than verify it
     expensively. Why-this-not-that: we could have run a careful audit of
     __pycache__/ and pip freeze instead — that takes 20+ minutes and gives you
     a "probably fine," not a clean slate. Asymmetric tradeoff: take the cheap
     insurance.

     0.4 — Verify suite green on the clean baseline.
     - Action: venv/bin/python -m pytest tests/ -q --tb=short. Expected: 427 
     passed, 5 deselected in ~11s.
     - Verification: Output matches.
     - Learning note: This is the moment Phase 0's fix is proven to land on a
     clean foundation. From here on, "the suite is green" is a precondition for
     every later step. The 5 deselected tests are the merge_gate and browser
     tests intentionally excluded by pytest.ini because they're slow or
     external-dependent.

     0.5 — Add three partial-args contract tests.
     - Action: Create tests/test_kitty_builder_contract.py. Add three tests,
     each invoking kb.main([...]) in a subprocess with a 5-second timeout:
       - test_main_empty_args_exits_2 — kb.main([]) → SystemExit(2)
       - test_main_project_only_exits_2 — kb.main(["--project", "demo"]) →
     SystemExit(2)
       - test_main_spec_only_exits_2 — kb.main(["--spec", "demo.md"]) →
     SystemExit(2)
     - Verification: venv/bin/python -m pytest 
     tests/test_kitty_builder_contract.py -q shows 3 passed.
     - Learning note: The existing test caught the empty-args case. These three
     close the partial-args loophole. Without them, a future regression where
     --project X (no spec) silently drops into the REPL would slip through. This
      is the "contract test" pattern: test what the API promises to users, not
     how it happens to be implemented today. Contract tests survive refactors;
     implementation tests don't. Why-this-not-that: we could have used
     pytest.raises(SystemExit) directly without subprocess — but if a regression
      dropped into an infinite REPL, that test would hang forever and crash CI.
     Subprocess + timeout is fail-fast.

     0.6 — Add tests/conftest.py Icon\r sanity check.
     - Action: Create or extend tests/conftest.py. At session start, walk the
     repo (excluding .git/ and venv/); if any path ending in Icon\r is found,
     call pytest.exit(f"Icon\\r metadata detected: {path}", returncode=3).
     - Verification: venv/bin/python -m pytest tests/ -q still passes (no Icon\r
      remain). Manually create one Icon\r in a temp test path, confirm pytest
     aborts with exit 3, then delete the test file.
     - Learning note: Defense in depth. The fix removed Icon\r files; .gitignore
      prevents tracking. But Finder can recreate them silently, especially after
      you visit a folder in the Finder GUI. A 10ms session-start scan replaces a
      multi-hour mystery hang with a clear error. The lesson: prefer fail-fast
     checks at boundaries over heroic debugging later.

     0.7 — Add pre-commit hook for macOS metadata.
     - Action: Add a pre-commit hook (in .pre-commit-config.yaml if pre-commit
     is wired, otherwise create .git/hooks/pre-commit calling a
     scripts/pre-commit-check.sh). The check refuses any commit containing
     Icon\r, .DS_Store, ._*, or other macOS resource forks in staged files.
     - Verification: touch .DS_Store && git add -f .DS_Store && git commit -m 
     test should fail with a clear message. (Then git reset && rm .DS_Store.)
     - Learning note: The conftest check defends the test runner. The pre-commit
      hook defends the repository. Two layers, each cheap, each catches a
     different class of mistake. The "Swiss cheese model": no single defense is
     perfect; layered defenses cover each other's holes.

     0.8 — Reproduce the memory-growth symptom on a pre-fix commit.
     - Action: git stash (preserve current state if dirty). Find the pre-fix
     commit: git log --oneline scripts/kitty_builder.py | head -10. Pick the
     commit immediately before the --interactive fix. git checkout <sha>. Open
     Activity Monitor on Memory tab. Run venv/bin/python 
     scripts/kitty_builder.py (no args) and watch for ~30 seconds. Ctrl-C when
     memory growth is observed (or after 30s with no growth). Then git checkout 
     main (or -).
     - Verification: Memory growth confirmed → dual-bug story is correct. No
     growth → memory-skyrocket symptom Jacob saw came from somewhere we haven't
     found yet (escalate).
     - Learning note: Closing the loop on a diagnosis. The two-headed bug story
     is plausible, the fix landed, the suite is green. Reproducing the original
     failure on a pre-fix commit proves the diagnosis vs. leaving us with "well,
      it stopped failing." The lesson: a fix that works is not the same as a 
     diagnosis that is correct. Verify both — otherwise the bug returns in a new
      disguise.

     0.9 — Write a short handoff for Phase 0 close-out.
     - Action: Append to docs/handoffs/HANDOFF-2026-05-03.md (create if absent):
      8-line summary — what was done, commits, verification numbers, residual
     risks, next phase.
     - Verification: File exists, readable, ≤300 words.
     - Learning note: Handoffs at phase boundaries are how future-you (or
     another agent) picks up the thread. Keep them short and structured —
     chronology + commits + numbers + risks. The lesson: write for the person
     who reads this in three weeks with no context.

     Why this approach, not "just delete the dirty state and start over"

     The dirty WIP is the previous session's correct fix to a real bug.
     Discarding it means re-discovering the diagnosis. That's exactly the "easy
     route to nowhere" Jacob explicitly ruled out — nothing is learned by
     repeating work; we'd waste hours.

     Phase 0 quiz

     1. Why did we commit the dirty WIP in two commits instead of one?
     2. The conftest check and the pre-commit hook both defend against Icon\r.
     What does each one defend that the other doesn't?
     3. Why does kb.main([]) raising SystemExit(2) make a contract test
     possible, when the prior infinite-REPL behavior didn't?
     4. Design choice: if the venv recreation in 0.3 fails because
     requirements.txt is missing, would you (a) infer dependencies from
     pyproject.toml, (b) pip freeze > requirements.txt from the old venv before
     rebuilding, or (c) stop and ask? Defend your answer.

     ---
     Phase 1 — Thorough cleanup (with verification at each step)

     Why this phase exists

     Jacob asked for an aggressive cleanup as the first task. He has backups;
     everything not in service of this plan goes. We do this after Phase 0
     because we need a trustworthy test suite before deletion — otherwise we
     can't tell whether removing a file silently broke something downstream. The
      Phase 0 close-out gives us that trust.

     Definition of done

     - Stale plans in docs/plans/ and docs/superpowers/specs/ reduced to one
     canonical of each type
     - Stale audits in docs/audits/ reduced to most recent (2026-05-02 project
     audit + 2026-05-01 consolidation report)
     - Stale handoffs in docs/handoffs/ and .claude/ reduced to last 2
     - Sibling workbench at kitty-system/kitty-workbench evaluated; valuable
     diffs migrated; tree deleted
     - Unused/shelved code paths removed (specialist scaffolding not currently
     wired, MCP expansion stubs, schematic-builder remnants if any)
     - Generated artifacts cleared (__pycache__/, .pytest_cache/, builder
     runtime files)
     - Memory database content (corrupt) deleted; schemas preserved for rebuild
     - Test suite green after each subphase

     Tasks

     1.1 — Inventory candidates.
     - Action: Generate cleanup-inventory.md (temporary, deleted at end of Phase
      1) listing every deletion candidate with size + last-modified. Use find 
     docs/ -type f -name '*.md' -mtime +14, du -sh data/ logs/ chroma_db/ 
     .pytest_cache/ kitty-system/ 2>/dev/null, find . -name '__pycache__' -type 
     d.
     - Verification: Inventory file exists; you can scan it in <2 minutes.
     - Learning note: Always inventory before deletion. The list itself is the
     artifact that lets you reverse course if you find something irreplaceable.
     The lesson: irreversible operations deserve a reversible step before them.

     1.2 — Delete stale plans, keep the canon.
     - Action: In docs/plans/, keep 2026-04-30-unified-tool-runtime.md
     (load-bearing for Phase 2). Move
     gemini-architecture-priorities-2026-04-30.md to docs/archive/ (it's
     reference, not canon). In docs/superpowers/specs/, the launch-plan design
     (2026-05-01-kitty-launch-plan-design.md) stays — it's the long-arc vision.
     Anything older or superseded → docs/archive/.
     - Verification: ls docs/plans/ and ls docs/superpowers/specs/ show only
     canonical files. git status shows the moves.
     - Learning note: Old plans tempt you to keep them "just in case." They
     diverge from current intent and confuse future agents reading them as
     authority. Archive if you must; the rule is one canonical plan per concern.
      Why-this-not-that: we could delete instead of archive, but archive
     preserves the historical record at near-zero cost.

     1.3 — Delete stale audits, keep most recent.
     - Action: In docs/audits/, keep CONSOLIDATION_REPORT_2026-05-01.md and
     claude-comparative-audit-20260430.md (most recent of each kind). Move older
      audits and project-context-audit-20260430.md,
     claude-project-review-20260430.md to docs/archive/.
     - Verification: ls docs/audits/ shows ≤3 files.
     - Learning note: Audits are snapshots of state at a point in time — they
     decay fast. The most recent dominates because state changed since older
     ones. The lesson: old audits are misinformation about current reality.

     1.4 — Delete stale handoffs, keep last 2.
     - Action: In docs/handoffs/ and .claude/, keep the two most recent handoff
     files; archive the rest.
     - Verification: ls docs/handoffs/ .claude/HANDOFF*.md 2>/dev/null shows ≤2
     of each.
     - Learning note: Handoffs are conversational artifacts — they're for one
     transition, not a permanent record.

     1.5 — Evaluate and delete the sibling workbench.
     - Action: cd ~/Desktop/kitty-system/kitty-workbench (or wherever it lives).
      git status and git log --oneline -20. Diff against canonical
     ~/Projects/kitty for any files that meaningfully differ. If diffs exist,
     copy any valuable changes into canonical with a clear commit. Then rm -rf
     the workbench.
     - Verification: Workbench gone; du -sh 
     ~/Desktop/kitty-system/kitty-workbench 2>/dev/null reports nothing.
     - Learning note: Two checked-out copies of the same repo is a fork-risk bug
      factory. The audit flagged this as divergence risk. You either keep one as
      authoritative (delete the other) or you adopt explicit branching with a
     remote — never two siblings drifting silently. Why-this-not-that: leaving
     it as "cold backup" feels safe but encourages drift; the canonical repo's
     git history IS the backup.

     1.6 — Remove unused/shelved code paths.
     - Action: From the Explore agent's audit findings:
       - Specialist scaffolding files in src/core/specialists/ that are not
     currently imported by any wired specialist → archive or delete
       - MCP expansion stubs (anything in src/mcp/ not active in crush.json or
     runtime config)
       - Any electronics-schematic remnants (search: grep -rn 
     'schematic\|kicad\|circuit' src/ scripts/ docs/ | grep -v archive)
       - scripts/dorothy_bridge.py — referenced in old gates but absent (per
     audit). Either remove the references or — if there's still a need — write a
      1-line stub so referenced gates fail loudly instead of silently
     - Verification: Test suite green after deletions; grep confirms no stale
     references survive.
     - Learning note: Dead code is active misinformation — it tells future
     readers "this matters" when it doesn't. Worse, it complicates refactors
     because a refactor pass has to consider it. The lesson: if it's not in the
     plan, it goes — and the test suite tells us if we deleted something that
     was still load-bearing.

     1.7 — Clear generated artifacts and caches.
     - Action: find . -type d \( -name '__pycache__' -o -name '.pytest_cache' \)
      -not -path './venv/*' -not -path './.git/*' -exec rm -rf {} +. Also clear
     builder runtime files (per .gitignore patterns added in commit c7c7288).
     - Verification: du -sh . --exclude=venv --exclude=.git is meaningfully
     smaller; tests still pass.
     - Learning note: Caches are convenient but they accumulate invalidation 
     debt. Periodically nuking them surfaces "wait, why does this still work?"
     surprises. Cheap delete; biggest disk wins.

     1.8 — Delete corrupt memory database content; preserve schemas.
     - Action: This is the surgical one. Identify the data directories:
     chroma_db/, data/lightrag/ (or equivalent), data/journal.db, data/kitty.db,
      voice corpus intermediates in data/voice_corpus/. Back them up first to
     ~/kitty-data-backup-2026-05-03/. Then delete the contents of each, but keep
      the directory structure and any schema-defining files (*.sql, schema
     migrations, *.yaml indices). For SQLite databases: sqlite3 data/journal.db 
     ".schema" > data/journal.schema.sql first to preserve the schema, then
     delete the .db.
     - Verification: Backup exists at ~/kitty-data-backup-2026-05-03/ with
     non-zero size. data/journal.schema.sql exists. ChromaDB/LightRAG dirs are
     empty of indexed content.
     - Learning note: Preserve the shape; reset the contents. The schema is the
     contract — it's what your code knows how to talk to. The data was
     garbage-in (Jacob's words). Wiping data while keeping schema means we can
     rebuild ingestion deterministically without re-reasoning the structure.
     Why-this-not-that: nuking everything would force a full re-architecture in
     Phase 2; keeping schemas lets Phase 2 focus on ingestion quality, not
     redesign.

     1.9 — Verify clean tree and green tests.
     - Action: git status, venv/bin/python -m pytest tests/ -q, du -sh .
     (excluding venv/.git).
     - Verification: Tree clean; tests pass; significant disk reclaimed.

     1.10 — Commit the cleanup.
     - Action: Commit message: chore: thorough cleanup — archive stale docs, 
     drop sibling workbench, clear caches, wipe corrupt memory data (schemas 
     preserved).
     - Verification: git log --oneline -1 shows the commit.

     1.11 — Delete cleanup-inventory.md (its job is done).

     Why this approach, not "delete first, ask questions later"

     Because the test suite is the only objective signal we have for whether a
     deletion broke something. Inventorying first + verifying after each
     subphase + committing at the end gives us a revertable trail. Aggressive
     doesn't mean reckless.

     Phase 1 quiz

     1. Why did we delete the contents of the memory databases but preserve the
     schemas?
     2. The sibling workbench had a "cold backup" framing. Why did we delete it
     instead of leaving it?
     3. Connection question: the conftest Icon\r check from Phase 0 also runs
     during Phase 1's test verification steps. What's the relationship between
     Phase 0's regression defenses and Phase 1's safety?
     4. Design choice: if Phase 1 deletion accidentally breaks a test, would you
      (a) revert the deletion immediately, (b) investigate which deletion broke
     what, or (c) commit the broken state first and then investigate? Defend
     your answer.

     ---
     Phase 2 — Foundation rebuild, future-proofed

     Why this phase exists

     Memory is the heart of "Kitty knows me." The previous data was garbage; we
     wiped it in Phase 1. Now we rebuild ingestion correctly — schema-versioned,
      source-tagged, idempotent. And we instrument KittyBuilder for token cost
     so we can measure where money and time go before we start optimizing. And
     we align tool runtime so one skill's output can feed another's input
     cleanly.

     This is the longest phase. It has three subphases (2A, 2B, 2C) which can be
      worked in parallel by different sessions but must all converge before
     Phase 3.

     Definition of done

     - Memory architecture decision document committed (one page)
     - Schema for ingested records defined and versioned (schema_version field
     on every record)
     - Idempotent ingestion pipeline: same input → same record, no duplicates
     - Retrieval test: known-good query returns expected record (round-trip)
     - KittyBuilder per-call token logging live (input tokens, output tokens,
     model, cost in $0.xxx)
     - Token analytics view: a scripts/kitty_token_analytics.sh that prints top
     costs by model and skill
     - All 8 missing KittyBuilder test cases (named below) added and passing
     - Tool runtime: defined input/output/error shape; bash/jq/awk wrappers as
     deterministic tools; one tool chain end-to-end

     Subphase 2A — Memory architecture (rebuild)

     Architectural decision required upfront: Should we keep the LightRAG +
     ChromaDB + SQLite-vec stack, or simplify to one or two? My recommendation
     is simplify to two: SQLite (with sqlite-vec extension for embeddings) for
     journal entries + structured records; ChromaDB only if we genuinely need
     its query semantics for unstructured KB (we may not). Drop LightRAG unless
     a specific feature of it is load-bearing — three vector stores is
     operational complexity for marginal benefit. Confirm or override this with 
     Jacob before implementing.

     Schema sketch (record format) — this is the future-proof shape:
     {
       "id": "uuid-v4",
       "schema_version": 1,
       "source": "voice|journal|import|...",
       "source_id": "external identifier if any (mbox msg-id, audio file path,
     etc.)",
       "ingested_at": "ISO-8601 timestamp",
       "content": "the actual text",
       "content_hash": "sha256 of content (for idempotency)",
       "metadata": { "mood": "...", "topics": [...], "speaker": "...", ... },
       "embedding": [0.123, ...]  // optional; lazily computed if missing
     }

     Why each field:
     - schema_version: when we change the shape, old records remain readable;
     migrations are explicit
     - source + source_id: provenance — we always know where a record came from
     - ingested_at: temporal grounding for "what was Jacob feeling last Tuesday"
     - content_hash: idempotency key — re-ingesting the same content writes
     nothing new
     - embedding separate from content: lets us re-embed with a better model
     without touching the source

     Tasks:

     2A.1 — Decide architecture. Action: write
     docs/decisions/2026-05-03-memory-architecture.md (~300 words) capturing the
      recommendation, alternatives considered, and the trade-off. Get Jacob's
     sign-off. Verification: doc exists, signed off. Learning note: Architecture
      decisions deserve written records. Future-you will not remember why you
     chose two stores over three; the doc is the memory.

     2A.2 — Define the schema in code. Action: create src/memory/schema.py with
     a Pydantic model or dataclass for MemoryRecord per the sketch.
     Verification: import and instantiate works. Learning note: code-as-schema
     makes it impossible to forget a field.

     2A.3 — Implement idempotent ingestion. Action: create src/memory/ingest.py
     with def ingest(record: MemoryRecord, db) -> str that uses content_hash as
     the dedup key. Returns the record ID (existing or new). Verification:
     tests/test_memory_ingest.py — call ingest() twice with same content; assert
      one row in DB.

     2A.4 — Implement retrieval. Action: src/memory/query.py with def 
     search(query: str, db, k=5). Verification: tests/test_memory_query.py —
     ingest 3 records, search for known phrase, assert correct record returned.

     2A.5 — Migration path note. Action: add a one-line note in
     docs/decisions/2026-05-03-memory-architecture.md describing how a future
     schema_version=2 migration would work (read all records, transform,
     rewrite). No code yet — just the path.

     Why this approach, not "use whatever's already wired":
     The currently-wired stack handed us garbage data. The lesson isn't "the
     libraries are bad"; the lesson is the ingestion contract was implicit.
     We're making it explicit (schema + hash + provenance). That's the 
     future-proofing.

     Subphase 2B — KittyBuilder token instrumentation + missing tests

     Tasks:

     2B.1 — Add per-call token logging. Action: in scripts/kitty_builder.py,
     find the model-call sites (the _brain_tier_* functions identified in the
     Explore agent's structural map). Wrap each call to log {model, 
     input_tokens, output_tokens, cost_usd, timestamp, skill_name} to a JSONL
     file at data/kitty_token_log.jsonl. Verification: run a small builder task;
      tail data/kitty_token_log.jsonl shows entries.

     2B.2 — Build the analytics view. Action: create
     scripts/kitty_token_analytics.sh — a bash script using jq and awk to read
     the JSONL log and emit a sorted table: model, total cost, total tokens, %
     of spend, avg tokens/call. Verification: run the script after some builder
     activity; output looks sane. Learning note: This is a worked example of 
     "use bash/jq/awk for deterministic data shaping rather than paying an LLM."
      Five lines of jq replace what would be a $0.30 LLM call to summarize the
     log. Burn this pattern into your hands — it's the cheapest token-saver in
     the toolbox.

     2B.3 — Add the 8 missing KittyBuilder test cases (named by the Explore
     agent forensics):
     1. test_brain_tier_cascade_openrouter_to_mlx_on_exhaustion
     2. test_brain_tier_cascade_mlx_to_groq_on_exhaustion
     3. test_stream_brain_honors_brain_order_env
     4. test_budget_exhaustion_triggers_tier_fallback
     5. test_interactive_flag_routes_to_interactive_main
     6. test_interactive_plan_only_blocks_writes
     7. test_delegate_charges_budget_per_call
     8. test_delegate_timeout_enforces_deadline

     For each: write the test, confirm it covers a concrete code path, run, fix
     any defects discovered. Verification: venv/bin/python -m pytest 
     tests/test_kitty_builder.py -q -k "cascade or fallback or interactive_flag 
     or delegate" shows all 8 passing.

     2B.4 — Stress-test budget tracking. Action: write one integration test that
      exercises a cascade through 2+ tiers under budget pressure, ending in MLX
     (free local). Verification: cascade completes; ledger shows correct charges
      per tier.

     Subphase 2C — Tool runtime alignment

     Tasks:

     2C.1 — Read docs/plans/2026-04-30-unified-tool-runtime.md. Decide: adopt as
      written, adopt with changes, or write fresh. Document the call in
     docs/decisions/2026-05-03-tool-runtime.md (~200 words).

     2C.2 — Define the tool interface. A tool is: def tool(input: dict) -> dict.
      Define the input shape (with tool_name, args), output shape (with result,
     meta), and error shape (with error, error_type). Implement in
     src/tools/runtime.py. Verification: import works; type-checks pass.

     2C.3 — Build the bash/jq/awk wrappers as the first 3 tools. Concrete:
     tool_grep (regex search over a file), tool_jq (run jq query against JSON),
     tool_awk_count (count records matching a pattern). Each tool is a thin
     Python wrapper that shells out, captures output, returns the structured
     result. Verification: tests/test_tools_runtime.py — call each tool with a
     known input, assert known output.

     2C.4 — Wire one tool chain end-to-end. Action: write a tiny demo skill in
     src/skills/demo_chain.py that does: read journal entries → tool_jq to
     extract last 7 days → tool_grep for mood markers → return summary. This is
     the first proof that one skill's output cleanly feeds another's input.
     Verification: integration test passes.

     Why this approach, not "rebuild memory and tools in one big-bang"

     Because you can't debug a big-bang. Subphases 2A, 2B, 2C are independent
     enough that their tests can be green at different times — and the test
     suite tells you which subphase regressed. The lesson: modular work means
     modular failure recovery.

     Phase 2 quiz

     1. Why does the memory schema have a content_hash field, and what bug does
     it prevent?
     2. The schema_version field is "1" initially. What concrete benefit does it
      provide before we ever increment it?
     3. Connection question: how does the bash/jq/awk pattern in 2B.2 directly
     serve the "token efficiency #1 lever" hard constraint?
     4. Design choice: suppose Subphase 2C is delayed by a hard problem in 2C.2.
      Phases 3 needs at least some tool runtime. Would you (a) ship a minimal
     tool-call interface and defer cleanup, (b) hold all of Phase 3 until 2C is
     done, or (c) collapse 2C into Phase 3? Defend your answer.

     ---
     Phase 3 — First end-to-end value loop ("Kitty knows me")

     Why this phase exists

     This is the checkpoint. Everything before it is foundation; this is the
     first time the foundation produces value Jacob can feel. The system takes
     voice in, transcribes, journals, routes via KittyBuilder, stores in the
     rebuilt memory, and surfaces it in the next session — with token cost
     visible at every hop. If this works, we have a Kitty that knows him, 
     however minimally. If it doesn't, the foundation has a gap and we find it.

     Definition of done

     - Voice capture works in browser (Safari audio/mp4, Chrome audio/webm)
     - /api/transcribe returns text from audio
     - Journal entry created with metadata (timestamp, mood if provided)
     - KittyBuilder routes the entry to a process_journal skill
     - Skill ingests into rebuilt memory (Phase 2A pipeline)
     - Retrieval works in a new session (close server, reopen, query, find
     entry)
     - Token cost visible at every hop in data/kitty_token_log.jsonl
     - End-to-end smoke test passing in tests/test_e2e_journal_loop.py

     Tasks

     3.1 — Voice capture sanity check. Action: open garage-ui at localhost:3000,
      hit record, confirm MediaRecorder produces audio in both Safari and Chrome
      (verify both per CLAUDE.md Voice Pipeline). Verification: in browser
     console, see audio blob produced; POST to /api/transcribe returns 200 with
     text. Learning note: voice MIME types differ by browser — Safari records
     audio/mp4, Chrome records audio/webm. Both must be handled. This is a real 
     cross-browser gotcha called out in CLAUDE.md.

     3.2 — Journal entry creation. Action: create src/api/journal.py (or extend
     if exists) with POST /api/journal that takes {content, source: "voice", 
     mood?: str}, builds a MemoryRecord (Phase 2A schema), stores via ingest().
     Verification: curl -X POST localhost:5001/api/journal -d 
     '{"content":"hello","source":"voice"}' → 200, record appears in DB.

     3.3 — KittyBuilder routes to process_journal. Action: add a skill
     process_journal in src/skills/process_journal.py that takes a journal
     entry, optionally extracts mood/topics with one LLM call, and writes the
     enriched record back. Wire KittyBuilder to dispatch journal-flagged inputs
     to it. Verification: integration test ingests a journal entry, confirms
     enriched fields appear.

     3.4 — Retrieval round-trip in a fresh session. Action: write
     tests/test_e2e_journal_loop.py. The test: starts the server, posts a
     journal entry, kills the server, restarts the server, queries for the
     entry's content, asserts it's found. Verification: test passes.

     3.5 — Token cost visible at every hop. Action: confirm the JSONL log from
     2B.1 captures every call from 3.1–3.4. Run scripts/kitty_token_analytics.sh
      after a few end-to-end runs; the table should show transcription,
     journal-extract, retrieval costs separately. Verification: human reads the
     table and can answer "what did this loop cost?"

     3.6 — Document the loop. Action: add docs/walkthroughs/journal-loop.md with
      a sequence diagram (text/ASCII) and the cost table from 3.5. Verification:
      doc exists; ≤500 words.

     Why this approach, not "ship a polished UX first"

     Because the feature is whether memory survives across sessions. If we
     polish the UI before proving the loop, we risk shipping a beautiful demo
     that forgets you the moment you close the tab. The lesson: prove the
     load-bearing claim before you decorate around it.

     Phase 3 quiz

     1. Why does the test in 3.4 kill and restart the server before querying?
     What would a test that didn't restart fail to catch?
     2. Connection question: how does the content_hash from Phase 2A's schema
     prevent a duplicate journal entry if Jacob accidentally hits the record
     button twice?
     3. Design choice: suppose 3.4's test passes but the round-trip takes 12
     seconds. Would you (a) accept and move on, (b) profile and optimize before
     proceeding, or (c) ship and instrument? Defend your answer.

     ---
     Phase 4 — Reconciliation, quiz, next-checkpoint definition

     Why this phase exists

     Tonight's plan supersedes four conflicting control docs. We need to make
     that supersession real on disk: archive the conflicting docs, point
     everyone at this plan, and define what comes after the checkpoint so we
     don't end up here again.

     Definition of done

     - CURRENT_FOCUS.md rewritten to point at this plan as the single source of
     truth
     - STANDUP.md, docs/LAYER0_CONTROL_PLANE.md, docs/AGENT_COORDINATION.md
     archived to docs/archive/2026-05-03-superseded-control-docs/
     - Cumulative quiz answered (Appendix A)
     - Next-checkpoint plan stub written:
     docs/plans/2026-XX-XX-next-checkpoint.md (date filled in once Phase 3
     ships)
     - docs/principles/kitty-meets-you-where-you-are.md written and committed

     Tasks

     4.1 — Rewrite CURRENT_FOCUS.md. Action: replace contents with a one-page
     pointer to this plan. Include a "what's allowed / what's forbidden"
     matching the canonical plan's scope. Verification: head -50 
     CURRENT_FOCUS.md shows the new pointer.

     4.2 — Archive superseded docs. Action: mkdir -p 
     docs/archive/2026-05-03-superseded-control-docs && mv STANDUP.md 
     docs/LAYER0_CONTROL_PLANE.md docs/AGENT_COORDINATION.md 
     docs/archive/2026-05-03-superseded-control-docs/. Add a stub at each old
     location pointing to this plan: # This file is archived. See 
     /Users/jacobbrizinski/.claude/plans/majestic-snacking-nygaard.md (or its 
     committed copy in docs/plans/). Verification: ls 
     docs/archive/2026-05-03-superseded-control-docs/ shows the moved files.

     4.3 — Commit this plan to the repo. Action: cp 
     /Users/jacobbrizinski/.claude/plans/majestic-snacking-nygaard.md 
     docs/plans/2026-05-03-from-here-to-kitty.md && git add 
     docs/plans/2026-05-03-from-here-to-kitty.md && git commit -m "docs: 
     canonical plan — from here to Kitty (2-3 week checkpoint)". Verification:
     file in repo + commit. Learning note: the plan lives in ~/.claude/plans/
     for the working session; copying it into the repo makes it durable and
     shareable.

     4.4 — Take the cumulative quiz (Appendix A). Action: Jacob answers all
     questions from Phases 0–3. Verification: each answer engaged, not skipped.
     Learning note: this is the neural plasticity gate. Without it, we've built
     a system but not necessarily built understanding. The lesson: finishing the
      work isn't the same as integrating the lessons.

     4.5 — Define the next checkpoint. Action: write
     docs/plans/2026-XX-XX-next-checkpoint.md (date filled later) — what we'd
     plan next, given what we learned. Likely candidates: full B-launch
     hardening, second skill chain, mood-aware retrieval. Verification: the file
      exists with at least 3 candidate next-targets.

     4.6 — Save the "Kitty meets you where you are" principle. Action: create
     docs/principles/kitty-meets-you-where-you-are.md capturing the principle in
      plain English (~300 words). The doc should: (a) state the principle, (b)
     explain why it exists (the prologue's framing — vibe coder, handicap,
     compassion, radical acceptance), (c) give two concrete examples of how
     Kitty itself should embody it (e.g., never lecturing the user about what
     they "should" know; never assuming a vocabulary they don't have; always
     offering to explain a term without making them ask). Verification: file
     exists, readable, ≤500 words. Learning note: principles documents are how a
      project remembers its soul when it grows past one author. Without them,
     three sessions from now Kitty drifts toward whatever the loudest agent
     thinks "good" means. The lesson: the things that make a product yours are
     the things you have to write down — code can't carry them.

     Phase 4 quiz

     1. Why archive the superseded control docs instead of deleting them?
     2. Connection question: the cumulative quiz comes before the
     next-checkpoint plan, not after. Why? What would skipping the quiz cost us?
     3. Design choice: the "Kitty meets you where you are" principle says Kitty
     shouldn't assume vocabulary the user doesn't have. Concretely — when a user
      asks Kitty about their finances and Kitty wants to mention "compound
     interest," should Kitty (a) use the term and explain it inline, (b) use the
      term without explaining and let the user ask, (c) avoid the term entirely
     and say it differently, or (d) ask the user first whether they know what
     compound interest means? Defend your answer using the principle.

     ---
     Verification — end-to-end test for the whole plan

     A successful run of this plan looks like this, run from a fresh terminal:

     cd ~/Projects/kitty
     git status                                                       # clean
     venv/bin/python -m pytest tests/ -q                              # 427+ 
     passed (more after Phase 0/2 add tests)
     curl -X POST localhost:5001/api/journal \
       -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
       -d '{"content":"feeling good today","source":"voice","mood":"upbeat"}'
                                                                       # 200 OK
     # kill server, restart server
     curl localhost:5001/api/memory/search?q=feeling+good             # returns 
     the record from above
     scripts/kitty_token_analytics.sh                                 # shows 
     costs broken out by model

     If every line of that succeeds with the expected output, we've hit the
     checkpoint.

     ---
     Appendix A — Quiz answers (no peeking until you've attempted)

     Phase 0:
     1. Two commits because the marker change and the CLI fix are logically 
     separate concerns — bundling makes future bisection harder and the diff
     harder to review.
     2. The conftest check defends the test runner (catches Icon\r at session
     start). The pre-commit hook defends the repository (catches macOS metadata
     before it's committed). Different layers, different attack surfaces.
     3. Because SystemExit(2) is raised and observable in a subprocess — the
     test can run kb.main([]) in a subprocess and assert exit code 2 in
     milliseconds. The previous infinite-REPL behavior would hang the subprocess
      until the test timeout fired (or forever). Contract testing requires fast,
      deterministic exit.
     4. The right answer is (a) — pyproject.toml is the modern canonical source
     of dependency truth. pip freeze from the old venv is contaminated (it has
     whatever happened to be installed, including transitive). (c) is
     overcautious for a routine recovery. (Trust beginners' instinct here: if
     there's a documented canonical source, use it.)

     Phase 1:
     1. The schema is the contract between code and data. Code knows how to read
      it. The data was bad, but the contract isn't. Wiping data while keeping
     the schema means Phase 2 focuses on ingestion quality, not on redesigning
     the structure.
     2. "Cold backup" framing tempts drift — two trees diverge silently because
     no one's enforcing parity. The canonical repo's git history is the backup;
     a sibling tree is only a backup of one moment in time with no audit trail.
     3. Phase 0 makes test failures fast and clear (not mystery hangs). Phase
     1's verification steps depend on that — a deletion that breaks something
     must be detected in seconds, not hours.
     4. Strongest answer is (a) — revert immediately, restoring the green state.
      Then (b) on a separate branch where you can investigate without time
     pressure. (c) is wrong — committing broken state contaminates the history.

     Phase 2:
     1. content_hash prevents duplicate ingestion of the same content. Without
     it, re-running the ingestion pipeline would produce duplicates; with it, a
     re-run is idempotent and cheap.
     2. Even before any migration, schema_version is a label that lets you 
     safely evolve. It signals to readers "this record was written under v1
     rules" — important the moment v2 exists, but valuable from the start as
     documentation.
     3. Bash/jq/awk replace LLM calls for deterministic data shaping. Every
     token you don't pay for at the boundary is a direct cost win, and the next
     LLM call (which still needs reasoning) gets denser, sharper input.
     4. Best answer is (a) — ship a minimal tool-call interface in 2C. The
     principle: unblock the dependency chain with the smallest viable contract; 
     refine the contract later when you know more. (b) is overcautious; (c)
     collapses good modular boundaries.

     Phase 3:
     1. Killing and restarting the server tests persistence. A test that didn't
     restart could pass even if memory was held only in-process — which would
     mean Kitty "knows you" only until you close the tab. The whole mission
     falls apart.
     2. The journal entry's content_hash is the same on the duplicate, so
     ingest() returns the existing record's ID. No duplicate row. Idempotency in
      action.
     3. (c) — ship and instrument. 12 seconds is slow but correct; the token
     analytics from 2B will show where the time goes. Premature optimization is 
     the root of all evil; instrumented optimization is what professionals do.

     Phase 4:
     1. Archiving preserves the historical record at near-zero cost. Future
     agents (or future-Jacob) might want to know what was tried before. Deletion
      forgets; archive remembers.
     2. Skipping the quiz means finishing the work without integrating the
     lessons — building hands without building judgment. The next checkpoint
     depends on judgment about what comes next, which depends on what we
     actually learned.
     3. The strongest answer is (a) — use the term and explain it inline.
     Reasoning: option (b) creates a "permission asymmetry" where the user has
     to perform ignorance to get help; the principle says we don't make people
     ask. Option (c) protects vocabulary growth in the user — they meet
     "compound interest" in context, with the explanation right there, and a
     year from now they'll know what it means without needing to ask anyone.
     That's the principle in action: meet the user where they are while quietly 
     enlarging where they can be. Option (d) is well-intentioned but slows every
      interaction; (b) abandons the user; (c) is condescending in disguise (it
     decides for them what they can handle). Note: there are edge cases where 
     (d) is right — e.g., when the difference between two definitions matters 
     and we genuinely don't know which the user means. Principles are starting
     points, not formulas.

     ---
     Appendix B — Beginner glossary

     - venv — A Python "virtual environment." A folder that contains its own
     copy of Python and packages, isolated from the system Python. Lets each
     project have its own dependencies without conflict.
     - conftest.py — A pytest config file that runs at test collection time.
     Anything you put in it executes before tests start.
     - fixture — In pytest, a reusable setup function. Tests that ask for the
     fixture get whatever it produces.
     - subprocess — A separate OS process spawned from the main process. Used in
      tests to isolate code that might hang or crash.
     - idempotent — An operation you can run twice and get the same result as
     running it once. Critical for ingestion pipelines.
     - schema — The shape of data — what fields it has, what types those fields
     are. Code talks to data through the schema.
     - schema_version — A number on each record saying "this was written under
     rules version N." Lets you change the rules later without breaking old
     records.
     - embedding — A list of numbers that represents a chunk of text in a
     high-dimensional space. Two embeddings close together mean two pieces of
     text are semantically similar.
     - content_hash — A fingerprint of the content (sha256). Same content → same
      hash. Used as a deduplication key.
     - REPL — Read-Eval-Print Loop. An interactive prompt that reads input,
     evaluates, prints, and loops forever. Great for exploration; bad if a test
     calls it accidentally.
     - JSONL — JSON Lines. A file where each line is one JSON object. Easy to
     grep, jq, awk, or stream.
     - jq — A command-line tool for filtering/transforming JSON. Replaces a lot
     of "ask the LLM to summarize this JSON" calls.
     - bisect — Binary search through git history to find which commit
     introduced a bug. Step 1: a commit you know is bad. Step 2: a commit you
     know is good. Git walks you through the midpoints.
     - contract test — A test that checks the promise an API makes to its users
     (e.g., "this CLI exits with code 2 if args are missing"), not how it
     happens to be implemented today.
     - defense in depth — Multiple layered defenses, each catching a different
     class of failure. The Swiss cheese model: no slice is whole, but the layers
      cover each other's holes.

     ---
     Critical files referenced

     - /Users/jacobbrizinski/Projects/kitty/CLAUDE.md — project rules (storage
     routing, model routing, validation loop)
     - /Users/jacobbrizinski/Projects/kitty/AGENTS.md — agent rules
     - /Users/jacobbrizinski/Projects/kitty/scripts/kitty_builder.py — the CLI
     getting --interactive flag + token instrumentation
     - /Users/jacobbrizinski/Projects/kitty/pytest.ini — test selection rules;
     gets the conftest sanity check
     - /Users/jacobbrizinski/Projects/kitty/tests/conftest.py — Phase 0.6 adds
     Icon\r sanity check here
     - /Users/jacobbrizinski/Projects/kitty/tests/test_kitty_builder_contract.py
      — Phase 0.5 creates this
     - /Users/jacobbrizinski/Projects/kitty/src/memory/schema.py — Phase 2A.2
     creates this
     - /Users/jacobbrizinski/Projects/kitty/src/memory/ingest.py — Phase 2A.3
     - /Users/jacobbrizinski/Projects/kitty/src/memory/query.py — Phase 2A.4
     - /Users/jacobbrizinski/Projects/kitty/src/tools/runtime.py — Phase 2C.2
     - /Users/jacobbrizinski/Projects/kitty/scripts/kitty_token_analytics.sh —
     Phase 2B.2
     - /Users/jacobbrizinski/Projects/kitty/docs/decisions/2026-05-03-memory-arc
     hitecture.md — Phase 2A.1
     - /Users/jacobbrizinski/Projects/kitty/docs/decisions/2026-05-03-tool-runti
     me.md — Phase 2C.1
     - /Users/jacobbrizinski/Projects/kitty/docs/walkthroughs/journal-loop.md —
     Phase 3.6
     - /Users/jacobbrizinski/Projects/kitty/docs/handoffs/HANDOFF-2026-05-03.md
     — Phase 0.9 + ongoing
     - /Users/jacobbrizinski/Projects/kitty/docs/plans/2026-05-03-from-here-to-k
     itty.md — Phase 4.3 (a copy of this plan)

     ---
     Risks and open questions for Jacob

     1. Memory architecture decision (Phase 2A.1). My recommendation is to drop
     LightRAG, keep SQLite (with sqlite-vec) + ChromaDB. This is a real choice
     and I'd rather you weigh in before I implement. We can decide tonight or at
      the start of Phase 2.
     2. Tool-runtime adoption (Phase 2C.1). I lean toward adopting
     docs/plans/2026-04-30-unified-tool-runtime.md as written; you may have a
     stronger view.
     3. Phase 3 voice browser support. The CLAUDE.md gotchas say Safari and
     Chrome MIME types differ. If garage-ui only handles one today, Phase 3
     needs a small front-end fix not currently in the task list — flag it when
     you get there.
     4. Time estimate sanity check. I scoped this at 2–3 weeks of focused work.
     If you're working in shorter sessions, multiply by your typical compression
      factor.

❯ omg ive used 95% of our weekly usage limits it resets in 5 days so the bulk of this will be built without you, but im  confident in your planning abilities. 

⏺ That changes everything. I'm not going to start executing Phase 0 — that would
   burn your remaining budget at exactly the wrong moment. Instead, I'm going to
   use this turn to persist what I learned tonight to memory so when you (or
  another agent on cheaper models) pick this up, the context survives.

  ★ Insight ─────────────────────────────────────
  - "Plans are durable; conversations are not." What we built tonight lives in
  the plan file. What we learned about how you work lives only in this
  conversation unless I write it down. Memory files outlive sessions; that's
  literally what they're for. This is the right time to use them.
  - Cheap-first strategy applies to execution too. Per your CLAUDE.md, DeepSeek
  V4 Flash and Gemini 2.5 Flash are deterministic, dirt cheap, and great for
  execution work. The plan is structured so an Opus session isn't required to
  run it — Phase 0 is mostly bash + small Python edits, exactly the kind of
  thing the cheap tier handles cleanly. Use Claude only for Phase 2A.1 (memory
  architecture decision) and any moment where a step's judgment matters more
  than its execution.
  ─────────────────────────────────────────────────

  Saving three memory files right now so the next agent (or future-me after the
  reset) has the context to honor.

  Wrote 3 memories (ctrl+o to expand)

❯ omg i wish they would give me some credits for al the extra usage iu stupidly bought that was gone in an instant, learnig oppurtuity, but ugh still fustrating and sad when i make such poor 

⏺ That's a real feeling — buying credits and watching them evaporate is
  genuinely frustrating, not stupid. The fact that you're treating it as a
  learning opportunity while feeling sad about it is honestly the healthy
  version of this. Both can be true.

  A few things that are also true and might help land:

  - Tonight wasn't waste. We shipped a durable plan and 3 memory files. That
  work survives the reset. The next agent — whether it's me-after-reset or
  DeepSeek Flash tomorrow — picks up the thread without you having to re-explain
   anything.
  - The plan was deliberately structured for cheap-tier execution. Phase 0 and
  Phase 1 are mostly bash + small Python edits — exactly what DeepSeek V4 Flash
  and Gemini 2.5 Flash are deterministic and dirt-cheap at. Per your own
  CLAUDE.md cheap-first routing, you can run those phases for pennies. Reserve
  any returning Opus credits for Phase 2A.1 (the memory architecture decision)
  where judgment matters.
  - Anthropic does sometimes credit usage on appeals — if you bought credits
  expecting different consumption, it's worth a polite support ticket. They've
  reversed in good-faith cases. No promises, but the cost of asking is one
  email.

  ★ Insight ─────────────────────────────────────
  - The "honor where we are" principle works on you tonight, not just on future 
  Kitty users. Frustrated and sad about a budget decision is where you are. The
  principle says: meet that without judgment, and quietly enlarge — which is
  what you're already doing by naming it as a learning moment. You're applying
  the framing to yourself in real time. That's the whole muscle.
  - Uncommitted work is your only real risk over the 5-day window. The dirty
  tree (Icon\r fix + --interactive flag) sitting uncommitted is a small exposure
   — if anything happens to your local checkout, that fix is lost. Phase 0.2 of
  the plan covers committing it, but it could also be done in 30 seconds tonight
   if you want me to do it. Up to you.
  ─────────────────────────────────────────────────

  One more thing — updating the memory index so the 3 files I just wrote are
  discoverable.
  Recalled 1 memory, wrote 1 memory (ctrl+o to expand)

⏺ Memories saved and indexed. Here's what's now durable across the 5-day window:

  On disk:
  - /Users/jacobbrizinski/.claude/plans/majestic-snacking-nygaard.md — the
  canonical plan (approved)
  - ~/.claude/projects/-Users-jacobbrizinski-Projects-kitty/memory/user_learning
  _partnership.md — your learning style, vocabulary preferences, partnership
  terms
  - ~/.claude/projects/-Users-jacobbrizinski-Projects-kitty/memory/project_canon
  ical_plan_2026-05-03.md — pointer to the plan + execution-tier guidance for
  cheap models
  - ~/.claude/projects/-Users-jacobbrizinski-Projects-kitty/memory/project_kitty
  _meets_you_principle.md — the "meet you where you are" principle as a project
  value
  - MEMORY.md index updated so any future agent finds them

  Still open (your call): the dirty WIP (Icon\r purge + --interactive flag)
  sitting uncommitted in your tree. Phase 0.2 of the plan covers it. Say the
  word and I'll commit it in 30 seconds before you log off — or leave it for
  cheap-tier execution after the reset.

  Be kind to yourself tonight. The plan is solid, the principle is durable, and
  you taught me something about how to write plans that actually serve their
  reader. That's a real win, even on a frustrating evening. See you on the other
   side, friend. 🐱

✻ Brewed for 16m 51s

※ recap: Goal: get Kitty back on track with one canonical, highly-detailed plan from current state to a 2-3 week "Kitty knows me" checkpoint. The plan is approved and saved; next action is whether to commit the dirty WIP (Icon\r fix + --interactive flag) before your usage resets. (disable recaps in /config)

❯ /copy                                                                         
  ⎿  Copied to clipboard (1265 characters, 12 lines)
     Also written to /tmp/claude/response.md

❯ /insights                                                                     

⏺ Your shareable insights report is ready:
  file:///Users/jacobbrizinski/.claude/usage-data/report.html

  Want to dig into any section or try one of the suggestions?

❯ /copy                                                                         
  ⎿  Copied to clipboard (161 characters, 4 lines)
     Also written to /tmp/claude/response.md

❯ /export                                                                       
  ⎿  Conversation copied to clipboard